README.md, before:

# zcrypto
The zcrypto NodeJS module provides APIs to RACF key rings and KDB (key databases) in z/OS.

## Background

This module leverages the [Certificate Management Services (CMS)](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSLTBW_2.4.0/com.ibm.zos.v2r4.gska100/sssl2cms1000455.htm) API.
The APIs in this module can be used to create/manage your own key database files,
and extract certificates stored in the key database file or RACF key ring.

## Installation

<!--
This is a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) module available through the
[npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).
-->

IBM SDK for Node.js - z/OS 14.0 or IBM Open Enterprise SDK for Node.js 16 or higher is required.

## Simple to use

### Install

```bash
npm install zcrypto
```

### Using zcrypto with RACF Keyrings
This assumes that a RACF Keyring was created and connected to a RACF private/public certificate and certificate authority.

```js
const zcrypto = require('zcrypto');

// Create an object of a zcrypto
var crypt = new zcrypto.ZCrypto();

// Open RACF Keyring labelled MYRING1
crypt.openKeyRing("MYRING1");

// Export RACF private/public keys labeled "ServerCert" to PKCS1 format
var pem = zcrypto.exportKeysToPKCS1(crypt, "ServerCert");

// Or export RACF private/public keys labeled "ServerCert" to PKCS8 format
pem = zcrypto.exportKeysToPKCS8(crypt, "ServerCert");

// pem object contains pem.key, pem.cert and pem.publickey

// Export RACF ca certificate labeled "CaCert" to PEM format
var cacert = zcrypto.exportCertToPEM(crypt, "CaCert");

// Launch a HTTPS web server with private key and certificate authority
const https = require('https'); 

// Configuration for the HTTPS web server.
const options = {
  key: pem.key,
  cert: pem.cert
};

// Create the https server and begin listening for requests.
https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200); 
  res.end('hello world\n'); 
}).listen(3000); // Listen for requests on port 3000.
```

### Using zcrypto with KDB (Key Databases)

```js
const zcrypto = require('zcrypto');

// Create an object of a zcrypto
var crypt = new zcrypto.ZCrypto();

// Example: Create a KDB file with a password, length and expiry time
crypt.createKDB("my.kdb", "root", 10024, 0);

// Example: Open kdb file if it exists
crypt.openKDB("my.kdb", "root");

// Import a P12 file as Cert.p12 using password and label
// Update only allowed for KDB
crypt.importKey("Cert.p12", "root", "MYCERT3");

// Export to P12 using password and label
var pem = crypt.exportKeyToFile("Cert.p12.nodedup", "root", "MYCERT3");

// Or export directly from a P12 File to PEM
pem = zcrypto.exportP12FileToPEM("Cert.p12", "root");

// Launch a HTTPS web server
const https = require('https'); 

// Configuration for the HTTPS web server.
const options = {
  key: pem.key,
  cert: pem.cert,
};

// Create the https server and begin listening for requests.
https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200); 
  res.end('hello world\n'); 
}).listen(3000); // Listen for requests on port 3000.
```

### Examples
See [examples](/examples) 

### How to generate a RACF private/public certificate and RACF keyring
Ensure that your z/OS Userid has CONTROL access to RACF facility classes `IRR.DIGTCERT.GENCERT`, `IRR.DIGTCERT.CERTAUTH`, and `IRR.DIGTCERT.ADD`

Modify and submit job cert.jcl:
`submit cert.jcl`

### How to generate a pkcs12 for import into KDB
```bash
# Must be performed on a non-z/OS machine and then transferred to z/OS as binary
openssl genrsa -out privatekey.pem 1024 
openssl req -new -key privatekey.pem -out certrequest.csr
openssl x509 -req -in certrequest.csr -signkey privatekey.pem -out certificate.pem
openssl pkcs12 -export -out Cert.p12 -in certificate.pem -inkey privatekey.pem -passin pass:password -passout pass:password
```

Commit message:

update Node.js version prerequisites
commit 8478c786ae upgraded zcrypto to v1.4.0 and enabled
zcrypto to build with clang.

README.md, after:

# zcrypto
The zcrypto NodeJS module provides APIs to RACF key rings and KDB (key databases) in z/OS.

## Background

This module leverages the [Certificate Management Services (CMS)](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSLTBW_2.4.0/com.ibm.zos.v2r4.gska100/sssl2cms1000455.htm) API.
The APIs in this module can be used to create/manage your own key database files,
and extract certificates stored in the key database file or RACF key ring.

## Installation

<!--
This is a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) module available through the
[npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).
-->

Before installing, [download and install IBM Open Enterprise SDK for Node.js](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/sdk-nodejs-zos)
16 or higher. zcrypto v1.4.0 or higher is required for Node.js 18 or higher.

## Simple to use

### Install

```bash
npm install zcrypto
```

### Using zcrypto with RACF Keyrings
This assumes that a RACF Keyring was created and connected to a RACF private/public certificate and certificate authority.

```js
const zcrypto = require('zcrypto');

// Create an object of a zcrypto
var crypt = new zcrypto.ZCrypto();

// Open RACF Keyring labelled MYRING1
crypt.openKeyRing("MYRING1");

// Export RACF private/public keys labeled "ServerCert" to PKCS1 format
var pem = zcrypto.exportKeysToPKCS1(crypt, "ServerCert");

// Or export RACF private/public keys labeled "ServerCert" to PKCS8 format
pem = zcrypto.exportKeysToPKCS8(crypt, "ServerCert");

// pem object contains pem.key, pem.cert and pem.publickey

// Export RACF ca certificate labeled "CaCert" to PEM format
var cacert = zcrypto.exportCertToPEM(crypt, "CaCert");

// Launch a HTTPS web server with private key and certificate authority
const https = require('https'); 

// Configuration for the HTTPS web server.
const options = {
  key: pem.key,
  cert: pem.cert
};

// Create the https server and begin listening for requests.
https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200); 
  res.end('hello world\n'); 
}).listen(3000); // Listen for requests on port 3000.
```

### Using zcrypto with KDB (Key Databases)

```js
const zcrypto = require('zcrypto');

// Create an object of a zcrypto
var crypt = new zcrypto.ZCrypto();

// Example: Create a KDB file with a password, length and expiry time
crypt.createKDB("my.kdb", "root", 10024, 0);

// Example: Open kdb file if it exists
crypt.openKDB("my.kdb", "root");

// Import a P12 file as Cert.p12 using password and label
// Update only allowed for KDB
crypt.importKey("Cert.p12", "root", "MYCERT3");

// Export to P12 using password and label
var pem = crypt.exportKeyToFile("Cert.p12.nodedup", "root", "MYCERT3");

// Or export directly from a P12 File to PEM
pem = zcrypto.exportP12FileToPEM("Cert.p12", "root");

// Launch a HTTPS web server
const https = require('https'); 

// Configuration for the HTTPS web server.
const options = {
  key: pem.key,
  cert: pem.cert,
};

// Create the https server and begin listening for requests.
https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200); 
  res.end('hello world\n'); 
}).listen(3000); // Listen for requests on port 3000.
```

### Examples
See [examples](/examples) 

### How to generate a RACF private/public certificate and RACF keyring
Ensure that your z/OS Userid has CONTROL access to RACF facility classes `IRR.DIGTCERT.GENCERT`, `IRR.DIGTCERT.CERTAUTH`, and `IRR.DIGTCERT.ADD`

Modify and submit job cert.jcl:
`submit cert.jcl`

### How to generate a pkcs12 for import into KDB
```bash
# Must be performed on a non-z/OS machine and then transferred to z/OS as binary
openssl genrsa -out privatekey.pem 1024 
openssl req -new -key privatekey.pem -out certrequest.csr
openssl x509 -req -in certrequest.csr -signkey privatekey.pem -out certificate.pem
openssl pkcs12 -export -out Cert.p12 -in certificate.pem -inkey privatekey.pem -passin pass:password -passout pass:password
```
